so
you know i just want to start
today by sharing with you guys a little
bit about why i left harvard so um
you know and this kind of story sort of
starts with i want to the reason i want
to share this is because
when we think about being successful or
being a failure and we think about okay
what do i want to do with my life a lot
of times what we do is we define success
as a particular external goal
so like for example we'll say like you
know oh like being an engineer at google
or like being on a film set for like
netflix
or being a best-selling author or you
know being faculty at harvard medical
school is like
how we sort of define success
and for a lot of us what we tend to do
is we kind of think about okay if i
don't feel like i'm successful or i want
to be successful what i'll kind of do is
pick that external target and i'll say
like okay if i
achieve that then i will be successful
so when we think a little bit about
what's the nature of success what we
sort of think about is an external
target
the interesting thing is that being
successful as a person if you think
about that framework has nothing to do
with you right like the the checkbox of
success has nothing to do with you as an
individual it's just completely an
external criteria so people who go to
harvard are successful that's just
that's kind of how we define it and
there's no individuality there's no
sense of like who who that person is or
what they want or what they care about
there's no um kind of emphasis on your
personal strengths or your ability to
like make contributions to the world
when we think about success all we sort
of really think about is an external
kind of perspective
and so that's something that you know
over time what i've come to figure out
is that um
you know what we kind of consider as
successful has not actually
sort of led to
me kind of being successful i i i know
it sounds kind of bizarre but a lot of
like my best decisions in life and a lot
of the things that i i think are um
really that i'm grateful for and proud
of actually come from not moving towards
success but actually like
moving away from success
and what i mean by that is there have
been lots of times in my life where like
something didn't feel right even though
on paper it was the right choice and i
think we're increasingly living in a
world where like following what
internally feels like it resonates with
you and sort of like following kind of
like not to sound corny but like
following your heart actually does lead
to some of the best outcomes and if we
really think about what what makes you
kind of the most successful it has to be
the things that are individual to you
and so i guess you know like many places
you know the way that this story is
going to start is like me failing out of
college
and you know when i was in high school
like and people were asking me like what
what do i want to be when i i grow up
you know i was the parent i mean i was a
child of two doctors both of my parents
were doctors
and so i i realized that like being a
doctor is a cool thing and was like
socially respected i didn't sort of
understand this consciously but i sort
of recognized that like oh people who
are doctors like get respect and like
that's what i wanted i was like a
teenager like you know not in very good
physical shape had trouble talking to
girls like didn't have a whole lot of
friends got bullied a lot like more in
middle school and stuff less so in high
school
learned how to be invisible in high
and so realize that like you know i
wanted respect and if i become a doctor
like that's how i'm going to get
people's respect so i would people would
ask me like what do you want to be when
you grow up and i would say i want to be
a doctor and people would be like
impressed like right there
and so i was like great so i was gonna
and then i had dreams actually of you
know when i started college and and sort
of
majored in pre-med that i was gonna be
like i was gonna be an awesome doctor
and i was gonna be the best and i was
gonna go to the best place and i was
gonna go to harvard and all that kind of
stuff right like most other you know
freshman pre-meds i had big big
ambitions for myself
and that quickly didn't work out for me
right because i had no real reason to do
it it was just all about ego and
satisfying other people and living up to
an external standard of success it had
nothing to do with what i cared about it
had nothing to do with what i was
aligned towards it had nothing to do
with what i was interested in it's all
for the sake of external success so no
surprise i got a whopping like 1.2 gpa
or something my first year in college
like i was on academic probation
um you know which is like i got like an
d average basically like got like a a b
maybe a couple of c's and a few f's
and so you know that wasn't working out
for me well and so like at some point i
decided that after my sophomore year i
increased my grades a little bit was
like solid like 2.2 gpa kind of student
and so realize that like you know this
wasn't working and so i went to india
and what i found in india was awesome i
absolutely loved it and i was like oh
you know what's also like super cool and
super respectable is becoming a monk and
like forsaking worldly things and all
those noobs who are chasing success and
trying to be the best at everything and
getting 4.0 gpas they're all
materialistic and you know what i'm
going to be better than them i'm going
to be not materialistic so all those
suckers over there who are succeeding at
the things that i failed at i'm going to
devalue them in my mind by setting a
goal for myself that's lost loftier and
in kind of bonus points because that
goal actually involves like not really
playing their game to begin with so i
decided you know my ego took an
interesting spin and i decided okay i'm
gonna become a monk right because that's
even cooler like i'm gonna forsake my
worldly things
and so then i was like a monk were
planning on becoming a monk for a while
so trained for several years and spent
time you know studying at monasteries in
like india and south korea and japan and
all that good stuff mostly india
and so then i had like my idea of like
what success was right so i'd abandon
the idea of being a doctor and then i
set a target like i'm gonna be like this
revolutionary monk who like makes the
world a better place and i'm gonna learn
how to levitate and do all these cool
things because i did encounter
potentially back then
and so you know that's sort of what i
gravitated towards and i did work
towards that goal right so i worked
really hard and i spent a lot of time i
i did a lot of very rigorous meditation
practices and you know spent time in
like the indian wilderness like in
isolation like meditating basically all
day long and it was kind of actually
like grueling and difficult and i was
like moving towards my goal and like i
actually learned a lot of good stuff
right
and then sort of what happened is is i
was kind of well on my path to becoming
a monk and and i kind of met my wife and
then i got kind of confused and like
here was this thing that i had built
like devoted seven years of my life
towards right so like i was on the road
to becoming a very successful monk
and so i sort of like walked away from
it because it just didn't feel right
like it just something about becoming a
monk didn't like resonate with me i
started to realize you know as i
actually did real spiritual training
like the re my reasons for becoming a
monk were actually like very egotistical
in nature
and so i had sort of this like ego of
having no ego so you'll see this in
people who are you know into
spirituality but not actually spiritual
like they talk the talk but they don't
walk the walk and so there are people
who will be like oh like i don't want to
be materialistic so i'm not going to pay
my bills
and i don't want to be like i don't want
to
chase the rat race and capitalism is
evil and stuff like that so can i borrow
20 bucks and never pay you back
so it's like oh you're so attached to
like man like you're so full of greed
and you're so money-minded like i don't
know why you're always asking me to pay
you back like why don't you just give me
more money like i don't understand man
be like not materialistic like just let
go bro like let go by the way can i
borrow 20 bucks
and so like you know so that i realized
that i sort of had that kind of false
spirituality where i used spirituality
as an excuse
to get away with all of like my baser
needs and instincts it was a way to use
spirituality to absolve myself of
responsibility
and i realized actually like you know
that that was kind of all false but even
though i had sort of trained for it
i kind of left i walked away from it it
just didn't feel right and then i was
sort of screwed like if you look at it
like objectively like that was a
terrible idea right so there i am at the
age of 26 i have no professional
experience practically i've been out of
college for like three years i've got a
crappy gpa and like i'm deciding not to
forsake the world and i'm gonna try to
like make it in this world like that's
terrible my resume is crap i haven't had
a job like if i try to get a job like
people are gonna ask me like you know
what have you been doing i'm like
playing video games maybe studying to
become a monk like i don't know i
haven't been doing much so it's a
terrible idea and meanwhile i like you
know i had all these connections in
india and had been doing like some stuff
over there and like you know even doing
research and things like that and i was
being like groomed by a particular you
know organization to sort of like be
you know kind of like a
um a
like a a missionary of sorts right i was
gonna be another one of these because i
was like fluent in english and things
like that
and and so they were like oh like you
know you can go and like spread our
message and stuff so that was you know
it was good in some ways
um but i decided to walk away and then i
kind of floundered a bit
for a while again and i struggled for a
while i like got back into school like
got a master's degree like applied to
medical school for a few years in a row
didn't get in
finally got lucky and and got into
medical school and then it was like okay
well what am i going to move towards how
am i going to be successful and so then
i decided i was gonna become like a
holistic cancer doctor right i was gonna
like save lives with like you know i was
gonna like take these cancer patients
because like cancer is like a real
disease right it's like a real problem
and i'm like save their lives and it's
gonna be great i'm gonna use like all
this eastern wisdom and like it's gonna
be like holistic and it's going to be
holistic and it's going to be holistic
and it's going to be awesome so i
position myself to like move towards
that goal right
and so um you know had thoughts about
like you know being the next the buck
chopra or something like that i don't
know if i actually wanted to do that but
like just something like that
so i was going to be this like
revolutionary like missionary visionary
like call it whatever you want to all of
the aries
and and so i did like you know research
in a rheumatology lab and like did all
this stuff around like meditation and
like you know different kinds of
physical illnesses did some stuff around
chronic pain and i was like positioning
myself right
then i sort of realized like what i
really love is like talking to people
and what i really love is the mind and
so i really appreciate you know an
education and and you know physical
medicine but what i really loved was
psychiatry and that got kind of tricky
because then when i like i remember
telling my mom
my dad had passed away at that point i
was like hey i'm thinking about being a
psychiatrist and she's like oh that's a
bad idea and then i talked to my my
grandmother and she was like well if you
become a psychiatrist like you're gonna
go crazy yourself so i went to my family
and i was like hey i'm thinking about
being a psychiatrist even went to my
wife at the time and i was like hey i'm
thinking about doing psychiatry and
she's like
neurosurgery she was super into grey's
anatomy at that point
she's like
because you've got the hair from
mcdreamy you know you should become a
neurosurgeon i was like no i think i
want to be a psychiatrist
and so she was you know not thrilled at
the beginning but was actually
really supportive and so then i ended up
you know going for psychiatry and wound
up you know doing residency at harvard
medical school
and so
started there
and so harvard was a fantastic place and
i think that you know there's a reason
why it has the reputation it has so i
went to tufts for medical school i went
to university of texas for undergrad and
winding up you know doing psychiatry
training at harvard like i could tell a
difference right so there's like there's
a difference so like the people there
are super motivated i found amazing
mentors you know i i had people who kind
of early on like you know i told them
i'm like hey my goal is to integrate you
know complimentary and alternative
medicine um into psychiatry and like how
do i do that and i had some awesome
awesome
mentors and stuff and like they sort of
gave me opportunities i started teaching
meditation on the inpatient psychiatry
unit um i started teaching meditation in
addiction rehabs i started teaching
meditation like all over the place i
taught it to physicians
i taught it to emergency room staff i
started working in jail so they were
like really awesome they also helped me
like sort of connect with research
opportunities and i started doing
studies and then i also was really
interested in sort of like making it
work financially so i actually opened up
my own clinic doing complimentary and
alternative medicine consultations
for patients at massachusetts general
hospital which like my mentors were
super supportive it was fantastic
so
there i am kind of like you know on
track and then they also like were super
supportive in terms of after i graduated
they were like hey you know if you want
to do like
you know this kind of work in a rehab or
if you want to work here you want to
continue doing your consults like we can
build a program and stuff like that they
were awesome really fantastic so really
visionary very supportive you know
really really high quality science
people helped me kind of think through
things and on the side i've got
you know i've got this kind of like
voice in the back of my head that's kind
of like but what about video games like
people are playing a bunch of video
games like what's up with that so i
started asking people you know like
everyone knew that i had like this
resume right and like i was kind of like
geared towards that that's what i was
known for
you know people from the hospital would
like email me and be like hey i've got a
patient who needs
so like you know who's interested in
this like what do you think about that i
was like really cool
and and then like i started asking
people like what do you all think about
video game addictions like this kind of
side thing right like i'm the
complimentary alternative medicine guy
and there's like they're like what about
video game addiction and i went to one
of my supervisors who's an awesome
supervisor and i kind of asked her she
was a psychoanalyst
and i asked her like you know why do you
think people get addicted to video games
and then so she's like an older person
right so he's in her 70s at that point
and she was like classically trained
like you know has been practicing
psychoanalysis for like 40 years
45 years
and so she was like you know i think the
reason people get addicted to video
games is for the same reason that they
get tattoos
and i was like
what and she's like then she like goes
into this like really complicated
explanation about like psychodynamic
theory and stuff like that
and and she was like you know like
tattoos are all about like
self-expression and we don't when we
have like parts of our being that we
can't vocalize we can't express
and then like we find some way to like
express ourselves and like people get
lost in video games because like it's
self-expression it's like lady what are
you talking about like and so then i
started asking like more and more people
about video games and and you know
i got a mix of responses you know that
was probably the most disconnected
response
and then i as i started like talking to
all these experts in the field of
psychiatry like i i realized like what
i'm talking to is a bunch of people who
are like older right so like if you
think about leaders in the field of
psychiatry they're like in their 50s in
their 60s
and
i mean that's how you like you don't
become chair of psychiatry you know at
massachusetts general hospital or
president of mclean hospital or like
chief of psychiatry at you know harvard
medical school or like whatever like you
don't get to be in that position at the
age of like 35 like you just don't do
that right you spend a whole career
doing research establishing yourself
going and presenting at conferences
getting grants becoming an expert in
something becoming like an academic
heavyweight like there's a path to
success
at harvard medical school
and all of the people who are sort of
leading the charge there you know they
don't really understand video games like
they haven't really played video games
and so it started to concern me a little
bit and and as i and during this time i
was like actually working with a lot of
gamers like on the side i probably
worked with about 500 gamers over the
course of residency like not as part of
my job
i would just kind of help randos on the
internet
and so what i started to realize is like
these people are like suffering really
really bad and like this is a real
problem there's a generation of people
who are like lost and they don't know
what to do and so as i went to my
mentors and i started to ask these
really brilliant psychiatrists really
brilliant academics like what do we do
about this problem and they were like
they were good right so they like
recognized they're like recognized by
passion and you know i i
had chosen to respect me despite my
youth
and my inexperience and they were like
okay here's how you if you want to
become an expert in video game addiction
like here's how you do it and they laid
out for me the path of success you know
you apply for grants like you don't
really know much about it right it's a
new phenomenon so the first thing that
you should do is like study for the
phenomenon so apply for this kind of
grant it's a five-year grant it'll give
you funding you can ask all these
questions you can try to understand
video game addiction and then after you
get that grant and you sort of produce
and you publish and stuff like that then
you can apply for a bigger grant and
then that'll fund you for another 10
years and then you start doing studies
and then you can start doing
interventions we can start a clinic here
and we can kind of do like you know you
can see a certain number of patients and
we'll kind of do like these kind of
interventions and then like 10 or 15 or
20 years later you'll understand video
game addiction and you'll understand how
to help these people right this is the
road
and and we can help you do it
and that's when i kind of realized like
this doesn't feel right to me right so
like what i realized is like there are
people struggling in like 20 years from
now like this is evolving so quickly
that by the time i get my research
funding for this grant to study you know
people with diablo 3 addiction like
diablo 3 is going to be dead like it's
going to be done
by the time the study ends like the pace
of video gaming is like so quick that
you can try to do a study on any
particular video game and like by the
time you recruit subject from the study
no one's going to be playing it like if
i want to study like people who play
fortnite like you know
eight months later like they're not
going to be playing fortnite anymore
right they'll have moved on to apex
legends they'll move on to something
else there's going to be something else
so i just realized that like the
institutions that medicine has
to study and evaluate a problem are like
no longer working and i think that that
you know that's a bold statement to make
and it's probably unfair and there are
lots of caveats to it right like so
obviously there's like a lot of good
things that medicine is doing like we
have good treatments for psychiatry
we've got good treatments for kovid now
we've got a vaccine so that's you know i
kind of retract that statement because
it's a little bit hyperbolic but what i
mean is especially when it comes to
technology addiction and mental health
something isn't working here right so
that i feel very confident saying that
despite advances in medicine despite
tons of research towards neuroscience
and psychology and stuff like that
mental health outcomes are not
necessarily improving right like you
know mental health got worse during the
pandemic
suicide rates continue to be high like
they've been kind of relatively high and
stable in men for decades and arguably
even getting worse so mental health has
now surpassed cancer and cardiovascular
disease in the united states is the
leading cause of morbidity and mortality
which is kind of staggering right so the
most
law
the biggest impact to our society's
health now comes from mental health
and it used to be cancer it used to be
cardiovascular disease and that's
because i think part of the reason that
the impact is so great is because mental
health is like affecting young people at
an alarming rate whereas if you compare
things like cancer and cardiovascular
disease it doesn't do a whole lot of
damage to our 20 year olds our 30 year
olds our 40 year olds our 10 year olds
our 15 year olds but when you have
someone who's depressed at the age of 18
you know drops out of college due to
their depression and never finishes that
is a life of like productivity and like
you know
involvement in society that kind of gets
tanked and we see this all over the
place right we see this um you know it
in
in neets we see this in neenies
so he's like and and i just got like i i
got concerned
that the institutions and approaches
that we have are not
paced well enough
to deal with the challenges that we face
and so i did something super bizarre
right so there i was at harvard having a
career and you know i worked there for
uh you know about a year afterward
because i was still trying to figure out
how to do this but
you know like like i had this career
path land planned out it was going to be
like super successful
and i did the most bizarre thing i
walked away from it right and and the
reason that i walked away is because it
sort of didn't feel right and i know it
sounds kind of weird but what i realized
is like
you know there's a path to success and
someone has laid it out to me like
they've you know they've given me
they've laid out the red carpet and
they've said all all you have to do is
walk down it and like this is how you do
it we will help you
and it just didn't feel right and so i
think it's super bizarre but i think
that most of my success has come from
walking away
from things that are objectively
successful
and moving towards things that feel
subjectively right
and i think that our society is like
really strange but i think it's like
cool now
that we live in a world where if you
have a particular niche if you have
something that you care about if you
want to do things a different way
that society is well positioned to
actually support you now more than ever
and i think about some of these indie
games is like a great example of this
like undertale for example i think was
made by one person right axiom verge was
made by one person and some of y'all may
have never heard of these games but i
think it's a good example of like
you know there's there's a very clear
niche and like you don't have to follow
the traditional path of success now more
than ever right if you want to write a
book like now with the explosion of
things like e-books and e-publishing i'm
not saying that it's like an easy route
but like you can write more niche books
we're seeing a true revival of the
fantasy genre because like so many
people are like reading and so you can
write a you know a book that you really
like and that you're super passionate
about and there's a good chance that
that book will be more successful than
it would have been 30 years ago when
everything was about mass market and so
i know it sounds kind of weird but
sometimes in life and especially if you
all are trying to think about you know
what to do
you may sort of have this objective idea
of what it means to be successful and
like what what an objective idea of what
it means to be successful is sort of
like what everyone can kind of agree on
and we set our targets based on those
kinds of ideas instead of actually
tapping into and taking advantage of the
things that make us unique
and so if you're really thinking about
how to be successful i know it sounds
kind of weird but like i would encourage
you to follow your instinct and move in
the direction that feels right to you
i'm not saying just follow your heart in
sort of like you know in an excuse kind
of way to shirk your responsibilities at
each step of the way you know i walked
away from becoming a monk i walked away
from becoming an oncologist i walked
away from you know being faculty i mean
i'm still technically faculty at harvard
medical school but you know i walked
away from a job there
and working there and following their
path because it just didn't feel right
like that system of of you know
addressing the world's mental health
problems didn't resonate with like my
personal goals
and so i walked away and so sometimes i
think being the most successful in life
actually comes from ironically walking
away from like excellent opportunities i
think the best decisions that i ever
made were the ones where i walked away
from a great opportunity
and so i would encourage all of you all
to think long and hard about what is it
that you want what is that what is it
that you care about what is it that like
that you can do for the world and you
may think to yourself oh i can't do
anything like i don't have any skills
that are you know
worthwhile
and and this is where you know i'm going
to use the example of professional dms
like you know there's a crowd of people
who are like i'm a good dungeon master
but like there's no
that's not a job but it is right so
because like there's a change there's a
trend in our society where people are
starting to institute more work-life
balance they're willing to you know not
everyone needs to drive you know a
hundred thousand dollar car
people some people just want to play d d
like i i have a t-shirt you know this is
what i wear basically every day i have
jeans that are eight years old this
fleece is like good god this fleece is
now seven years old and i wear the same
crap every day what do i care about i
want to spend money on the things that i
enjoy and for a lot of people those are
things like video games and playing
dungeons and dragons
and so are a lot of things that you may
care about and i encourage you to like
really think about okay how do i make
this work
right forget about what society tells
you is the road to success
and take a look at our current situation
and try to take a look at like okay what
can i do differently because a
successful psychiatrist is someone who
has you know a really nice private
practice in a very fancy office and
charges six hundred dollars an hour and
all that kind of stuff and like that's
what i was doing right so i had these
like people like these you know
tech startup ceos and all these kind of
people come into my office to learn
about you know meditation and work-life
balance and the meaning of life and like
dealing with their anxiety and dealing
with their stress and i'd put them on an
ayurvedic diet and give them these kinds
of supplements and like teach them
meditation it's all evidence-based
scientific stuff and they'd get better
right it was fantastic
that's what successful psychiatrists do
they don't stream on twitch and talk to
a group of people who are all centrally
you know well we all aren't broke that's
not fair i think i sometimes unfairly
characterize twitch but you know it's
it's like you know trying to like
talk to gamers on twitch like what how
am i going to make money here like
why don't i charge 600 bucks an hour
like i'm gonna help rando's on the
internet for two hours and do what
you know and so then it becomes an issue
of like trying to make it work right so
then you have to be like a little bit
calculating you have to think about it
okay how am i going to make this work
how many hours there's a reason why i
only stream six hours a week i literally
cannot afford to stream like eight hours
a day like a lot of streamers do right i
cannot afford it and so i have other
avenues of income and things like that
you find some way to make it work
and so i encourage all of you all to
think
about you know what is it that you can
offer what is it that you care about
because i think what we find is what we
see time and time again is that like a
lot of the most successful stories that
we see are from people actually
following their passion but in like a
calculated and careful way right it's
not like follow your passion like sort
of like the use it use that as an excuse
to shirk your responsibilities i have
two kids i can't just follow my passion
i have to figure out some way to like
you know buy them clothing and buy them
food and stuff like that you can't just
follow your passion but i would
encourage you to think long and hard
about what is your approach to success
and what do you think of as success and
take a step back from that and really
listen to like your inner self because
the the big thing that i found is that
you know i showed up on twitch and i
offered you guys what i have to offer
you
and it worked out really well because
it's something that i care about it
brings out the best in me right because
y'all are the people that i care about
this is a place that i love and this is
these are people that i care about and
so i'm gonna it's gonna bring out my
best performance
so trust yourselves listen to yourselves
and don't follow the traditional paths
of success without thought be thoughtful
about it and what you may find somewhere
along the way is that like you have to
do that for a little while right even if
i had set out to do this work i still
think i would have said okay i need to
get some kind of formal training as like
a medical professional because like
that's how i need to understand gamers i
need to understand neuroscience i need
to understand spirituality like
you know this is how i would still do it
you still have to do things that you
don't like but once you're doing those
things in service to your own goals
instead of like you know the grind at
your job so that you can get promoted
your experience of life your enjoyment
of life and your performance will will
be so much higher
when the work that you do is aligned
with your goals and things that you care
about even if you hate doing that
particular work it becomes so much
easier
questions
so one person's asking do you need to
live a do you need to succeed how about
just living a satisfying life
so it's a good question right so some
people may say like okay like life is
about satisfaction i know it sounds kind
of weird but i'm gonna say you need to
succeed
and what i mean by that is like you
should have something in your life that
you can be proud of
i don't think it's just and maybe that's
what satisfaction is like maybe you
could define satisfaction as having a
component of that but i do think that
like just from like a worth standpoint
right like i want you all to live a
build a life for yourself where you can
wake up and even if you don't enjoy your
work you can at least be proud of it
right you can hold your head up high you
don't have to be embarrassed when people
like ask you what you do or how you
spend your time or whatever it doesn't
have to be like their barometer of
success like you don't have to use their
measurement of success but i think in
terms of yourself if you have goals you
should strive to be successful
absolutely and you should sacrifice to
achieve those goals like absolutely
that's what i think ultimately leads to
satisfaction
is you know setting a target for
yourself that's aligned with the person
that you are and like strive for success
don't just cha i mean if if you're
calling success a part of satisfaction
that's fine but the concern that i get
is some people will say i want to live a
satisfying life or an enjoyable life
and that may not be the same thing as
well but like there are some people who
will sort of have more like i'm gonna
live in the present and essentially live
like a life of hedonism of pleasure
right and like maybe that means like
eating tasty burgers all the time and
like eating good food and stuff like
that
but there's good evidence there's a
really fascinating study that um
essentially demonstrated that like
suffering actually like you know
correlates with like how can i say this
that going through something bad makes
things more pleasant
so this is a really interesting it's
it's somewhat of a stretch of an
interpretation i don't have the
reference right at the top of my head
but they did a really interesting
experiment where they put they had
people put their hands
in like uncomfortably and painfully cold
water so they sort of like set it to
like maybe negative 10 degrees or
something like that and they had someone
stick their hand in it okay and so like
that water is objectively worse
like it's bad it's objectively painful
and then what they did is they they took
a second group of people and then they
had them put their hands in like
negative 15 degree water which is
objectively worse than the negative 10
degree water so they gave people a
stimulus that is objectively worse
than the prior stimulus
towards the end what they did is warm up
the water from negative 15 to negative
10. so group number one had negative 10
all along group number two had negative
and then up to negative 10. so they were
objectively started worse and ended up
just as bad as group number one
and people's experience of those two
events people in the second group
complained less
they felt like it was a more pleasant
overall experience and less painful
overall experience even though
objectively their experience was worse
so as human beings there's something and
and you know i can sort of share this
personally where like when you stay up
with your kid like the first night that
one of my kids had coveted i had coveted
two but i woke up every two hours and
and checked her oxygen level because
that's the scary thing right so it was
like an exhausting night but like it
feels worth it right like you wake up
the next day and you feel like crap and
you're exhausted
but
you can take pride in it right like i
can be like even though i feel like crap
i can i'm glad i did it and i'm like
happy with the person that i am today
and a big problem that i see in people
nowadays is that like
you know
we're exposed to so much suffering
without purpose
so if you look at like people who are
like working in the grind right like you
can think about someone like an amazon
warehouse worker or like a ups delivery
person and they can get compensated well
but like they're working really hard but
it's not for a purpose and so i think a
big part of satisfaction with life a big
part of like feeling successful and
being proud of yourself is not the
avoidance of pain you don't need to
avoid pain and gravitate towards
pleasure all you need to do is have pain
for a damn good reason
and if you think about like i'm just
gonna think about a gaming analogy for a
second okay so if i think about the
games that i enjoy playing the most the
multiplayer games like the best and most
epic moments
the most epic moment in a video game is
not when you stomp objectively from
minute 1 to minute 30 and just destroy
them the most epic moments are the ones
where you are behind and you make a
comeback
right so it's that exactly that water
that water experiment
is if you think about what makes the
sweetest part of life it's actually the
bitterness that comes ahead of time
and there's this is also found in
ayurvedic medicine where there's a
particular herb called um
what's it called uh it's neem it may
have a different carlo limburo is like
sort of
the you know the ethnic term but neem
leave so these are very very bitter
leaves and if you guys can get these
leaves i encourage you to try them it's
a great meditation practice so you eat
one of these leaves and it's like so
damn bitter and then you drink water
afterward and it tastes so sweet
and so it's so interesting but i think
when people are sort of asking okay like
do you need to be successful like is it
okay to live a satisfying life and what
i'd say is that like don't avoid pain
and don't avoid suffering
build a life for yourself where you can
succeed through pain and suffering and
then you'll have a life that's truly
satisfying
you